                     METAPLEX(TM) NFT OPEN SOURCE LICENSE

                            Version 1.0, Oct. 2022

                                   PREAMBLE

As the publisher of the non-fungible token (NFT) standard for the Solana
blockchain, we believe in the set of principles that have guided open source
software development models over the years – Transparency, Collaboration,
Release Early and Often, Community, and Inclusive Meritocracy. Thus, for our 
code repository, we have adopted an “Apache-style” licensing scheme. To be
true to our NFT and crypto legacy, however, we do impose some restrictions on 
modifying our code that we believe promote the purpose and promise of NFTs in 
order to protect the web3 ecosystem.

         TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR USE, REPRODUCTION, AND DISTRIBUTION

  BY DOWNLOADING, INSTALLING, OR OTHERWISE ACCESSING OR USING THE FILES 
ACCOMPANYING THIS LICENSE, YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE READ, UNDERSTOOD, AND AGREE 
TO BE BOUND BY THIS LICENSE. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE, YOU MAY NOT USE ANY OF THE 
ACCOMPANYING FILES.

  1. Definitions.

  “License” means the terms and conditions for use, reproduction, and
Distribution as defined by Sections 1 through 9 of this document.

  “Licensor” means the copyright owner or entity authorized by the copyright 
owner that is granting the License.

  “Legal Entity” means the union of the acting entity and all other entities 
that control, are controlled by, or are under common control with that entity. 
For the purposes of this definition, “control” means: (i) the power, direct or 
indirect, to cause the direction or management of such entity, whether by 
contract or otherwise, or (ii) ownership of 50% or more of the outstanding 
shares, or (iii) beneficial ownership of such entity.

  “You” (or “Your”) means an individual or Legal Entity exercising permissions 
granted by this License.

  “Source Code” means the preferred form for making modifications, including 
but not limited to software source code, documentation source, and 
configuration files.

  “Object Code” means any form resulting from mechanical transformation or 
translation of Source Code, including but not limited to compiled object code, 
generated documentation, and conversions to other media types.

  “Work” means the work of authorship, whether in Source Code or Object Code, 
made available under the License, as indicated by a copyright notice that is 
included in or attached to the work, an example is provided below:

------
Copyright © [yyyy] [name of copyright owner]
Licensed under the Metaplex(TM) NFT Open Source License, Version 1.0 (the 
“License”). Use of this file is only permitted when in compliance with the 
License. You may obtain a copy of the License at:
https://github.com/metaplex-foundation/
  metaplex-program-library/blob/master/LICENSE

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software 
distributed under the License is distributed on an “AS IS” BASIS, WITHOUT 
WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied. See the 
License for the specific language governing permissions and limitations under 
the License.
------

  “Derivative Works” means any work, whether in Source Code or Object Code, 
that is based on (or derived from) the Work and for which the editorial 
revisions, annotations, elaborations, or other modifications represent, as a 
whole, an original work of authorship. For the purposes of this License, 
Derivative Works shall include works that merely (dynamically or statically) 
link or bind by name to the interfaces of the Work and Derivative Works 
thereof.

  “Distribution” (or “Distribute”) means to do anything with a work that, 
without permission, would make You directly or secondarily liable for 
infringement under applicable copyright law, except executing it on a computer 
or modifying a private copy, including copying, distribution (with or without 
modification), any kind of propagation that enables other parties to make or 
receive copies, making it available to the public (either directly or via 
remote interaction over a computer network or blockchain), and, in some 
countries, other activities as well.

  “Competitive Product” means a Derivative Work that is primarily designed to 
function as a commercial substitute for the Work such that the Derivative Work 
offers materially similar functionality to a materially similar target 
audience as the original Work, including hosting a version of the original 
Work that reduces the economic benefit of the original Work to the Licensor.

  “Contribution” means any work of authorship, including the original version 
of the Work and any modifications or additions to that Work or Derivative 
Works thereof, that is intentionally submitted to Licensor for inclusion in 
the Work by the copyright owner or by an individual or Legal Entity authorized 
to submit on behalf of the copyright owner. For the purposes of this 
definition, “submitted” means any form of electronic, verbal, or written 
communication sent to the Licensor or its representatives, including but not
limited to communication on electronic mailing lists, source code control 
systems, and issue tracking systems that are managed by, or on behalf of, the 
Licensor for the purpose of discussing and improving the Work, but excluding 
communication that is conspicuously marked or otherwise designated in writing
by the copyright owner as “Not a Contribution”.

  “Contributor” means Licensor and any individual or Legal Entity on behalf of 
whom a Contribution has been received by Licensor and subsequently 
incorporated within the Work.


  2. Grant of Copyright License. 

  Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby
grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, 
irrevocable copyright license to reproduce, prepare Derivative Works of, 
publicly display, transmit, publicly perform, sublicense, and Distribute the
Work and such Derivative Works in Source Code or Object Code form.

  3. Grant of Patent License.
  
  Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby
grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free, 
irrevocable (except as stated in this section) patent license to make, have 
made, use, offer to sell, sell, import, and otherwise transfer the Work, where 
such license applies only to those patent claims licensable by such 
Contributor that are necessarily infringed by their Contribution(s) alone or 
by combination of their Contribution(s) with the Work to which such 
Contribution(s) was submitted. If You institute patent litigation against any 
entity (including a crossclaim or counterclaim in a lawsuit) alleging that the 
Work or a Contribution incorporated within the Work constitutes direct or 
contributory patent infringement, then any patent licenses granted to You under
this License for that Work shall terminate as of the date such litigation is 
filed.


  4. Distribution.

  (a) You may reproduce and Distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works 
  thereof in any medium, with or without modifications, and in Source Code or 
  Object Code form, provided that You meet the following conditions:

    i. You must give any other recipients of the Work or Derivative Works a 
    copy of this License;
  
    ii. You must cause any modified files to carry prominent notices stating 
    that You changed the files;
  
    iii. You must retain, in the Source Code of any Derivative Works that You 
    Distribute, all copyright, patent, trademark, and attribution notices from 
    the Source Code of the Work, excluding those notices that do not pertain 
    to any part of the Derivative Works; and
    
    iv. If the Work includes a “NOTICE” text file as part of its Distribution, 
    then any Derivative Works that You Distribute must include a readable copy 
    of the attribution notices contained within such NOTICE file, excluding 
    those notices that do not pertain to any part of the Derivative Works, in 
    at least one of the following places:
      
      1. within a NOTICE text file distributed as part of the Derivative Works;
      2. within the Source Code or documentation, if provided along with the 
      Derivative Works; or
      3. within a display generated by the Derivative Works, if and wherever 
      such third-party notices normally appear.

    The contents of the NOTICE file are for informational purposes only and do 
    not modify the License. You may add Your own attribution notices within 
    Derivative Works that You Distribute, alongside or as an addendum to the 
    NOTICE text from the Work, provided that such additional attribution 
    notices cannot be construed as modifying the License.

  (b) You may add Your own copyright statement to Your modifications and may 
  provide additional or different license terms and conditions for use, 
  reproduction, or Distribution of Your modifications, or for any such 
  Derivative Works as a whole, provided Your use, reproduction, and 
  Distribution of the Work otherwise complies with the conditions stated in 
  this License.

  (c) Notwithstanding any other section of this License, You may not under any 
  circumstances make modifications to the Work to use, produce and Distribute 
  a Derivative Work, in Source Code or Object Code form, that is a Competitive 
  Product.

  5. Submission of Contributions.

  Unless You explicitly state otherwise, any Contribution intentionally 
submitted for inclusion in the Work by You to the Licensor shall be under the 
terms and conditions of this License, without any additional terms or 
conditions. Notwithstanding the above, nothing herein shall supersede or 
modify the terms of any separate license agreement you may have executed with 
Licensor regarding such Contributions.

  6. Trademarks. 
  
  This License does not grant permission to use the trade names, trademarks, 
service marks, or product names of the Licensor, except as required for
reasonable and customary use in describing the origin of the Work and 
reproducing the content of the NOTICE file.

  7. Disclaimer of Warranty. 
  
  Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, Licensor provides 
the Work (and each Contributor provides its Contributions) on an “AS IS” 
BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or 
implied, including, without limitation, any warranties or conditions of TITLE, 
NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY, or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. You 
are solely responsible for determining the appropriateness of using or 
Distributing the Work and assume any risks associated with Your exercise of 
permissions under this License.

  8. Limitation of Liability. 
  
  In no event and under no legal theory, whether in tort (including 
negligence), contract, or otherwise, unless required by applicable law (such 
as deliberate and grossly negligent acts) or agreed to in writing, shall any 
Contributor be liable to You for damages, including any direct, indirect, 
special, incidental, or consequential damages of any character arising as a 
result of this License or out of the use or inability to use the Work 
(including but not limited to damages for loss of goodwill, work stoppage,
computer failure or malfunction, or any and all other commercial damages or 
losses), even if such Contributor has been advised of the possibility of such 
damages.

  9. Accepting Warranty or Additional Liability. 
  
  While Distributing the Work or Derivative Works thereof, You may choose to 
offer, and charge a fee for, acceptance of support, warranty, indemnity, or 
other liability obligations and/or rights consistent with this License. 
However, in accepting such obligations, You may act only on Your own behalf 
and on Your sole responsibility, not on behalf of any other Contributor, and 
only if You agree to indemnify, defend, and hold each Contributor harmless for 
any liability incurred by, or claims asserted against, such Contributor by 
reason of your accepting any such warranty or additional liability.

  10. Revised Versions of this License. 
  
  The Metaplex Foundation may publish revised, newer versions of this License 
from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in spirit to the present 
version but may differ in detail to address new problems or concerns. Each 
version will be given a distinguishing version number. If the Work specifies a 
certain version of the Metaplex(TM) NFT Open Source License, then that version 
shall apply. If the Work does not specify a version number of the Metaplex(TM) 
NFT Open Source License, then the latest version published by the Metaplex 
Foundation shall apply.
